Docs: Split Custom Domains as Explanation and How-to Guide (Diátaxis) (#9676)
readthedocs/readthedocs.org: docs/user/guides/canonical-urls.rst

How to Enable Canonical URLs
============================

In this guide, we introduce relevant settings for enabling canonical URLs in popular documentation frameworks.

> .. seealso::

Reviewer: A seealso callout feels "heavy" here. I think we can just include it in the opening copy.

   If you want to customize the domain from which your documentation project is served, please refer to :doc:`/guides/custom-domains`.

Sphinx
~~~~~~

If you are using :doc:`Sphinx </intro/getting-started-with-sphinx>`,
Read the Docs will automatically add a default value of the html_baseurl_ setting matching your canonical domain.

> If you have defined ``html_baseurl`` in your ``conf.py``, you need to ensure that the value is correct.

Reviewer: What is `correct`? Should we recommend that they remove it and let us set it?

Author: I wondered about this, too. This is mostly what the old text says. Will update :+1:

Author: Now it's very explicit, it's actually nice because it hopefully motivates people to fix it.

Side-note that we opened a new issue today about adding an environment variable for the canonical URL, `#9781`

.. _html_baseurl: https://www.sphinx-doc.org/page/usage/configuration.html#confval-html_baseurl

MkDocs
~~~~~~

For :doc:`MkDocs </intro/getting-started-with-mkdocs>` we do not define your canonical domain automatically,

> but you can use the site_url_ setting to set a similar value.

Reviewer: This also feels very limited. We should at least add another couple lines of explanation copy of what to set that as. Probably good to be explicit about what to set things to when using subdomains or custom domains on RTD.  An example code block is probably best.

Author: Agreed. Since we have an mkdocs example project, I can quickly go and see what can be done there :innocent:

Author: Haha, well that was a :rabbit: :hole:

Author: This part now has a copy-paste friendly code example. Unfortunately, there is a bit of limitations in how MkDocs is supported so it required IMO a reference to currently open issues in order to be fully explained.

In this guide, we introduce relevant settings for enabling canonical URLs in popular documentation frameworks.

If you need to customize the domain from which your documentation project is served,
please refer to :doc:`/guides/custom-domains`.

Sphinx
~~~~~~

If you are using :doc:`Sphinx </intro/getting-started-with-sphinx>`,
Read the Docs will automatically add a default value of the html_baseurl_ setting matching your canonical domain.

If you need a custom ``html_baseurl`` in your ``conf.py``,

> you need to ensure that the value is correct.

Author: I edited your suggestion - I agree the "you need"x2 isn't good. But reading "When you" might be harder to understand, so I changed the second "you need" to "you have"

> you need to ensure that the value is correct.

Reviewer: Looks good.

For :doc:`MkDocs </intro/getting-started-with-mkdocs>` we do not define your canonical domain automatically,
but you can use the site_url_ setting to set a similar value.

In your ``mkdocs.yml``, define the following:

.. code-block:: yaml

   # Canonical URL, adjust as need with respect to your slug, language,
   # default branch and if you use a custom domain.
   site_url: https://<slug>.readthedocs.io/en/stable/

Note that this will define the same canonical URL for all your branches and versions.

> According to MkDocs, defining site_url_ only affects the canonical URL of a website.

Author: I actually removed my elaboration because it became too lengthy.

```suggestion
According to MkDocs, defining site_url_ will only define the canonical URL of a website and does not affect the base URL of for instance links or included CSS or JS files.
```

> According to MkDocs, defining site_url_ only affects the canonical URL of a website.

Reviewer: Edited yours to remove the `for instance` and clarify it a bit more 👍
